step-1. setting up the project, run (npm init)
        it will generate a "package.json" file, it expects there should be an "index.js" file, so create it

        to run the "index.js" file we can run it directly, but in the NodeJs ecosystem we can do it by 
        changing the "scripts" in the "package.json" such as adding a script - 

            "start", "dev", "or_any_name" and provide a command to run behind the scene when we run 
                "npm run dev/start" which will be : "node index.js"

step-2. just one or two lines above the line containing "script" in "package.json" go and add "module" inside 
        the "type" IF YOU WANT TO USE THE "import/export" statements or IF YOU WANT TO USE THE "require()" 
        syntax or statement use "commonjs"

step-3. implementing "prettier"
            1. first run "npm install --save-dev --save-exact prettier"
            2. then "npx prettier . --write"
            3. now write the default formatting properties in the ".prettierrc" file

        we need one more file ".prettierignore" because we do not want whole files to be formatted (such as 
        node_modules and env files)

step-4. initialising as git repository and making the ".gitignore" file

step-5. installing nodemon as dev dependency for "constant refresh" of the application.
            
        run (npm install --save-dev nodemon)

        for this to work we have to change the "dev" "script" in the "package.json"

step-6. now we want to hide our critical information or credentials

        for that we have to install "dotenv" module
        To use the "dotenv" package, make a ".env" file in the root or home directory of the project
        After installing, we have to load or import "dotenv" at the very start of the "index.js"

step-7. restructuring the project - 
        
        1. first have a "public" folder, which will be responsible for serving any file (such as images etc)
            (cloudinary, AWS and other CDNs are also used for hosting images)
        2. then a "src" (source) folder which has - 
            i. "controllers" folder where all the logics/functions is written
            ii. "db" folder which has the database operations
            iii. "middleware", when a request comes and it reaches to the server, in between we want to do 
                    some task
            iv. "models", its the structure of how we are going to keep the data in the database
            v. "routes" keeps all the routing information
            vi. "utils/helpers" has the extra utilities (anything that can be reused)
            vii. "validators" to validate the data

        move the "index.js" inside the "src" folder (also change the address in the "scripts" inside 
            "package.json")

step-8. setting up "express" for routing - 
            importing express and writing HTTP methods in "app.js" but listening to them in "index.js"

step-9. using "Postman", its an API testing tool and also used for API development
            We will be using it for handling the routes and for testing purposes

step-10. Separating the "app.js" with "index.js"

         the "index.js" file is the main entry point of the project, so it should not be dependent on 
            express, database or any other thing
        
         So we will create a new file "app.js" inside the "src" folder and write all the express code there 
            so that the index.js doesn't pile up with all of the code so we can keep it as short and as 
            clean as possible

step-11. before creating any routes, certain configurations need to be done such as - 
            1. "app.use" acts as a middleware

            using CORS package which provide "express" middleware that can be used to enable CORS
                (we will import cors in the "app" and not in the "index" to keep it clean)

step-12. standardizing the responses/error that come from the server - 
            Standardizing means there should be a format (such as displaying status code, message, data) 
            for the following responses/errors

            the standardization of "errors" are already managed in the node ecosystem (Error() class 
                is present there)
         
            but we have to design the standardization of "responses" on our own

            adding all the responses/errors in a file "api-response.js", "api-error.js" in the "utils" folder

step-13. creating "constants" file inside the "utils" folder so that a common and fixed syntax is followed 
            all the time to prevent typing errors

Applications can have database inside the server or outside the server
This project will use an online database service (MongoDB Atlas)

step-14. connecting to the database (MongoDB)
            - the MongoDB url and password will be added in the "env" file

            - create a file inside "db" folder as "index.js" and import "mongoose" there and write 
                "connectDB()" method to connect to the database

            - after creating the file, go to the MongoDB Atlas in the browser, and then create a free 
                cluster, go to the project overview and click "connect" on that cluster and choose 
                "compass" or "shell" as a connection method (compass is recommended)

            - after that it will give a long URL known as "connection string", copy that but it is 
                not usable right now and go and add the URL in the ".env" file, after pasting the URL 
                you have to add a name of the database at the end of the string

            - set the IP address in the network access as "0.0.0.0/0" so that anyone can have the 
                access (its not a production setting, its a development setting)

            - after that we need to have a database access as well, so create a new database user 

NOTE - in the password, ONLY GIVE ALPHABETS AND NUMBERS, DO NOT GIVE SPECIAL CHARACTERS!!

                Add "read and write in any database" as the "built-in role"
                Now update this username, password in the URL that you pasted in the "env" file

            - now modify the main entry file "index.js" as now it is connecting and listenining to the port,
                but we only want it to listen to the port once it has connected to the database
                
                So for this import the connectDB method inside the index file

Whenever you change something in the ".env" file, it doesn't auto reload the application, so you have to 
kill the command and run it again

step-15. now we work on the PRD
    
    We will plan our application into a couple of boxes such as - 
        1. Controller - 
            Inside this all the logic/functions of the application goes
        2. Routes - 
        3. app.js
            As all the routes are finally imported/integrated in the app so that they can serve on any 
                endpoint

step-16. Writing "healthcheck" logic in the "healthcheck.controller.js" file and then wrapping it in the 
            "async-handler" which is an higher order function

        optimizing the "healthcheck" function so that we can avoid too many try-catches and another thing 
            is that you can automatically catch any unhandled promise rejections, specially in the errors 
            and pass them express's built in "error handler"

        Writing a simple error handling utility in a file in the "utils" folder

step-17. Writing the "userSchema"

    Going to the "models" folder, because it is a place where you store the structure of the data (a schema 
        of username, email, password etc.)
    Create a new file "user.models.js" inside the "models" folder

step-18. Working on the hooks (pre and post hooks and encryption of passwords)

    Encryption is a loose term, rather it is one way encryption which cannot be decoded back, that is known 
        "hashing"
    Use "bcrypt" library for hashing the passwords (anything can be encrypted by "bcrypt")
    Import "bcrypt" in "users.models.js" file and attach the hook to the schema
    After that, use "pre-hooks" (write a method for that)

    Now we have created a function to hash our password before the "save" operation, but if we change our 
        username or avatar anytime then also on saving the details the pre-hook will run and hash the 
        password and will be encrypted.
    So you will not have the original password encryption, so we have to write a safeguarding operation 
        that only change the password when you are touching the "password" field (means only when someone 
        is registering for first time or resetting the password)


step-19. if somebody is saving the password in the encrypted format so how will it be verified that the 
            password entered in clear text format is exactly the same (whether its correct or incorrect)

        So we will write a method named "isPasswordCorrect()" for this in the "users.models.js" file and 
            attach it to the schema

see about JSON Web Tokens (JWT) in the theory

step-20. creating three tokens (two with-data and one without-data)
            The "with-data" token are Access token and Refresh token.
            
            Adding information about tokens in the "env" file, such as - 
                ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=test
                ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRY=1d
                REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET=test
                REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRY=10d

            the library used to generate Access and Refresh token is "jsonwebtoken"
            import "jwt" into "user.model.js" file and write code to generate access and refresh token

            import "crypto" module of "NodeJs" to generate "without-data" token, these are temporary tokens 
                which can be used for verifying a user or resetting a password

step-21. writing email utilities for verifying a user

    for user verification, you will send him an email and for this email we will generate tokens, but 
        for delivering the tokens to the user email we need to write things to generate an email as 
        well as send the email

    for creating the emails we use libraries such as "mailgen" (it writes mails for us)
    importing "mailgen" and writing code for "generating email" in "mail.js" file in "utils" folder

    adding SMTP credentials from "mailtrap" in the "env" file
    importing "nodemailer" and writing code for "sending email" in "mail.js" file in "utils" folder 
    SENDING EMAIL IS ALWAYS ASYNC

In the process of registering a user, we cannot go ahead and save the user details easily. First, we need 
    to generate the Access, Refresh tokens and the temporary tokens and then we have to send the email to 
    the user as well 

step-22. working on registering a user 

    creating a controller named "auth.controllers.js" and writing code for registering a user
    for that import "User" from the "models" folder 
                    "APIresponse" and "asyncHandler" from the "healthcheck.controller.js" file 
                    "APIerror" from "api-error.js" 
                    "sendEmail" from "mail.js" in "utils"

step-23. creating routes - 
    
    - create "auth.routes.js" file in "routes" folder
    - import the "registerUser" controller from the "contorllers" folder and write the route code
    - then import this route into the "app.js" and also add the "app.use" code for it

step-24. testing the router with postman - 

    (also creating a structure for testing so that we can later on reuse this)
        - create an "auth" folder in postman and create a new request "register"
        - make this a "post" request and enter the URL
        - inside the "Body" select "raw" and "json" and then save this setting
        - for testing write an json object consisting of email, username, password and hit send

step-25. writing validation for "register" operation - 
    
    before dircetly using "express-validator" there are three things which you need to work on - 
        1. "middleware" - for calculating and passing all the errors to somebody
            install "express-validator" and create a "validator.middleware.js" file in the "middleware" folder
        2. "validation" - 
            writing code in "index.js" file in "validators" folder
        3. "routes" - 
            the middleware as well as validator will go in the routes
            write routes in "auth.routes.js", fisrt import the "validate" method from 
                "validator.middleware.js" and "userRegisterValidator" from "validators" folder

step-26. writing a login feature/controller - 

    installing and importing "cookie-parser" in the "app.js" file, and adding "app.use(cookieParser())" 
        for getting access to cookies
    now writing controller for login in "auth.controller.js"
    now set the route for login

step-27. writing validation for "login" operation and testing it in postman - 

    first we need to work on - 
        1. "validation" - 
            writing code in "index.js" file in "validators" folder
        2. "routes" - 
            write routes in "auth.routes.js", fisrt import the "validate" method from 
                "validator.middleware.js" and "userLoginValidator" from "validators" folder

    the testing process is same as that of "register"

step-28. working on verificaiton of JWT also known as auth middleware - 

    How does the access token reaches to the user/server?
        1. directly by the cookies
        2. in mobile apps it is transferred by a header (Authorization: Bearer <token>)

    writing a middleware code in the "auth.middleware.js" file in the "middleware" folder
    working of auth middleware - 
        1. first we want to intercept the "request" made to the server in the middleware
        2. we want to access the access token
        3. and after accessing the token decode the information
        4. once we have the information, we will append/inject this information in the "request"

step-29. writing a controller for "logout" - 

    write code in "auth.controller.js" add the route for it

step-30. working on adding some values into database and removing them - 
    
    all the controller logic is written in "auth.controller.js" and routes in "auth.routes.js"

    1. working on route "/current-user", its a "get" request
    2. working on route "/verify-email/:verificationToken", its a "get" request
        if you go to "mailtrap" and see the "verify yourself" button in email, then the link address 
            of it contains a "token" at last...so we have to learn how to access the token value from 
            the URL
    3. working on route "/resend-email-verification", its a "post" request
        maybe the user wasn't able to verify the email within the time limit
    4. working on route "/refresh-token", its a "post" request
        for refreshing the access token
    5. working on route "/forgot-password", its a "post" request
        the forgot password mechanism is that, you send an email, we check that whether you are in the 
            database or not and we send you an email
    6. working on route "/forgot-password", its a "post" request
    7. working on route "/change-password", its a "post" request

step-31. adding routes of all the above controllers - 