-> In the real world industry, the first discussion happens on the backend and not on the frontend

-> PRD is a Project Requirement Document which gives us the idea about what to build and what not to

-> use "module" inside IF YOU WANT TO USE THE "import/export" statements or IF YOU WANT TO USE THE 
    "require()" syntax or statement use "commonjs"

-> Prettier code formatter is "opinionated". "Opinionated" simply means you can write a rule file and 
    everybody in the project is going to follow those rules 

        now we need to add some common files so that if there are multiple developers working on the project 
        , everything should be aligned for each one of them (such as it shouldn't be like a person is using 
        2 spaces, another is using 4 spaces, one is using semicolons and another not, we need everybody 
        should follow the same rules) because when the code of different people is merged into the main 
        branch of the repository it will create a problem/error.

        The problem is that all of your files are going to look like they have been changed but in reality 
        only some of them were changed

-> what is the "constant refresh" problem?
    the problem is that, that any change we make in the codefile we have to run our server again and 
        again to see the changes, so we want that our server should refresh or restart automatically 
        whenever some changes are made in the files

    for this you can either use "nodemon" or "node --watch"

    "nodemon" is a tool that helps develop Nodejs based applications by automatically restarting 
        the node application when file changes in the directory are detected.

    whenever we make application, there are 2 modes on which application is run, "dev" mode and "start" 
        mode, "dev" mode is used for development and "start" is for the production server
        On the production server we do not use nodemon because its a dev dependency, we use "node" there 
        and in the "dev" we use "nodemon"

-> what is "env"?

    now we want to hide our critical information or credentials

    if a client makes a request to the server, the computer which has the server application passes it 
        the server and then server replies to the client, if all the information is contained inside the 
        server app then there are chances that some of the information can get leaked, so for this another 
        server has lot of security measures being implemented and some of the sensitive info is saved here 
        , so whenever a server wants some sensitive info, it asks the secure server, it gets the info and 
        the sensitive info is never stored in the server application

    The secure information is known as "env"
    for that we have to install "dotenv" module
        This module loads environment variables from a ".env" file into "process.env"
    To use the "dotenv" package, make a ".env" file in the root or home directory of the project

    After importing "dotenv" in the entry app of the project there are 2 ways to use it - 
        1.  (process.env.//)after putting a dot you can access any variable in that file
        2.  dotenv.config({
                path: "",
            })
            
            the "config()" method takes an object as a parameter where we can provide the 
                path of where the ".env" file is

-> structuring/restructuring the project - 
    every production level project have some kind of organization and a structure

    for that, use (NestJs) framework which automatically enforces some folder structure for us, if you 
        are not using any framework, you have to implement some folder structure for yourself
    
    1. first have a "public" folder, which will be responsible for serving any file (such as images etc)
        (cloudinary, AWS and other CDNs are also used for hosting images)
    2. then a "src" (source) folder which has - 
        i. "controllers" folder where all the logics/functions is written
        ii. "db" folder which has the database operations
        iii. "middleware", when a request comes and it reaches to the server, in between we want to do 
                some task
        iv. "models", its the structure of how we are going to keep the data in the database
        v. "routes" keeps all the routing information
        vi. "utils/helpers" has the extra utilities (anything that can be reused)
        vii. "validators" to validate the data

NOTE - The "git" never preserves or stores any empty folder, so inside the "images" create a file (.gitkeep)

-> There are two major components of any application - 
    1. first is how the routing structure will work like, the web server
    2. the other is the database and how we are going to interact with the database

-> "Postman" is an API testing tool and also used for API development

-> CORS(cross origin resource sharing) Error - 
    it occurs when browser is expecting that the frontend and 
    backend are hosted on the same machine even though they are present on different machine and 
    even in different regions, and it is the default feature of the "browser" that it doesn't allow 
    cross origin resource sharing and due to this it doesn't allow the frontend to communicate with 
    the backend.
    This error can only be handled by backend and a person who works on the backend

-> "Health check API" 
    It monitors the system status, most of the applications when you throw them on AWS etc they need to 
        constantly check whether the application is running in the healthy status or not and for these 
        things, health check APIs are designed

    "/api/v1/healthcheck" we want to have a "get" request on this endpoint and we will be able to get a 
        system health status as response

-> a "higher order function" is a function which takes another function as an input and gives a function 
    as an output

-> Authentication simply means we will have a user, and store some data about them in the database (and 
        providing functionalities such as register, login, logout etc.)
    All the login details goes to the server, it is processed there and stored into the database

-> Whenever you are writing a "Schema" (eg. "User"), once it goes to the MongoDB it automatically gets 
        converted into lowercase ("user") and plural form ("users")

-> Schema is a method which takes an object in which you define all the fields such as username, email, 
        pass... the first object is all the fields and second object is the time stamps

-> A schema comprises of some schema, "methods" as well as "hooks"
    Mongoose also helps in designing schema

-> In a schema there are lot of fields and in each field you want to save some data, so everything will 
        revolve aroung saving the data, but when you are saving the data there are some things that you want 
        to do just before the saving (pre-hooks) and just after the saving (post-hooks)
    So one of the thing we want to do is encrypt out password, so if we send a password to pre-hook, it can 
        encrypt the data
    Encryption is a loose term, rather it is one way encryption which cannot be decoded back, that is known 
        "hashing"

    for "hashing" you need to provide two things - 
        1. the data you want to hash
        2. and how many rounds of hashing algo you want to apply

-> If we are giving the exact same password as the one which is stored in the database then the hash 
        will be exactly same, so if the hash of the saved password matches or is exactly same to 
        the entered password then we can say that the password is correct

    We do not have to write a algorithm for this, the "bcrypt" actually does it behind the scene, but 
        this kind of mechanism whether your password is same or not should actually be a part of 
        schema itself rather than the "controller" logic

-> What are JSON Web Tokens (JWT) ?

    This is a very standard approach of authenticating any user, and making sure it stays authenticated

    If we have a client and a web server, the client will be making many requests to the server (such 
        as you made a request and got a response and after some time again made a request and got 
        a response) but for each of the request that you sent, you need some kind of authentication 
        continuously that you are a registered user in our database and we would like to respond you 
        back, and if at any time you are not logged in or validated then you will not get any response 
        and will be asked to log in again.

    The mechanism to prove that you are a logged in user (we can store some cookies, but just storing 
        them would not make you an authorised user), this is where a long string comes and with every 
        single request you have to send this string or token also known as "JWT" to prove that you are 
        a valid user

    Format of JWT (xxxxx.yyyyy.zzzzz) - 
        1. "header" - it comprises of 2 things, algorithm and the type
                {
                    "alg": "HS256",
                    "type": "JWT"
                }
        2. "payload" - This is the information that we can pass on but it is not directly passed on, first 
                it is encrypted then passed on (any information such as username, id, email etc)
        3. "signature" - 

    To do that we send an "header information" known as "Authorization" which has a keyword "Bearer" 
        and a space after that is the token. (Authorization: Bearer <token>)
    Go to postman, click on "Headers", add "Authorization" as the key and "Bearer <token>" is its value

-> Tokens are just a long string

    There are two types of token - 
        1. with data (data can be id, email etc) - 

            This type of token also have to types - 
                they are generated in exactly same way and the way you use them is also exactly same, only 
                    difference is of their time of expiry - 
                1. Access tokens - they are short lived tokens, just for few minutes
                2. Refresh tokens - they are long lived, for a few days

                the refresh token has less information(payload) than access token because it is used less, 
                    access token is used a lot

            We create two tokens inside the server (access and refresh), the Access token acts as a key 
                that as long as you have it you are a valid user, so the Access token +  Refresh 
                token goes to the client and the Refresh token is also saved in the database 
                (the copy of Access tokens are never stored in the database, they are stateless), 
                anyone who has the Access token is allowed to use the application, it is called as 
                authenticated user.

                Every single request that you send to the server, it is compulsory that you are going to 
                send me a copy of this access token and based on the checking of the access token you 
                get a response
                Since Access tokens are short lived, there might be cases that you sent a web request and 
                the access token has expired and in that case you get logged out and you have to log in 
                again.
                There is another mechanism that happens when Access tokens have expired, the client is 
                sent an special response of a error saying timed out, so we design the frontend just like 
                this that you send a message to the server with the "Refresh token" from the client side 
                and if this refresh token matches up then it issues a new access token and gives it to the 
                user

            JWTs are data attached or with data tokens

            Access tokens and Refresh tokens are all JWT tokens

        2. without data - 

            creating it is simple, just generate a long string with random characters

            they are used majorly for things which needs to be done just one time, 
                for example you need to verify a user, so you send a token to the user and also keep it 
                with yourself in the database as well and if the person sends the exact same string that's it

                there are two copies of token being made, one is sent to the user and another is kept in 
                the database, now when the user makes a request he sends this token and the server looks into 
                the database and if both the tokens matches then the user is termed as verified/validated 
                and he further has the access to further actions

-> steps of registering a user - 
    1. take some data
    2. validate the data
    3. check in DB if user already exists
    4. save the user data (the process involves - generating the Access, Refresh and the temporary tokens 
            and then we have to send the email to the user as well)
    5. verify the user

-> for sending an email, there are two types of email - 
        1. production email - 
            for this you can use services like "AWS SES" (simple email service) or "Brevo", these are 
                production grade services (DO NOT USE GMAIL OR YAHOO! because they aren't meant for 
                these kinds of email)
            In the development environment, these emails are sent on some XYZ account and you don't get 
                to see that email
        2. development email - 
            for these there are some test platforms in which the email is sent to your inbox only so 
                that you can see the emails
            "Mailtrap" is one such service for this

-> steps of logging in a user - 
    1. take some data
    2. validate the data
    3. check in DB if user already exists
    4. if the user exists then check if the password is correct
    5. if the password is correct then we want to generate tokens
    6. now send tokens in cookies as well (there are no cookies in mobile apps)

    if we are going through this route, there is a problem that "express" don't have cookies access 
        directly
    so we have to bring in a package known as "cookie-parser" so that cookies are accessible

-> what is auth middleware?

    We have a client and a server, and in the server there are so many controllers been written and as soon 
        as the request goes to the server you also send some data along with it (such as access token). So 
        with every request the access token should be sent, this is such a common thing that's happening 
        that we should make it as a separate code...

    For eg, there are multiple controller files which are checking that whether you have access token, 
        so do you want multiple files checking or only one file should check this?

    So for only one file to check for the access token, before the user request reaches to the server 
        or the controllers we will write a middleware on the request that will check for the token
    Now none of the multiple controllers present there will have to check for the token

-> we do not execute middlewares, we just pass a reference of it

-> middlewares usually never send a good response, they just transfer the information to the controllers